This pdf contains chapters from 1 to 12 + 23.
what you can do and what tools you need for doint that.




point conscoisness: piccolo riassunto
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because I exhort you at every turn to collect your own experience data, I
suppose that I should tell you how to go about accomplishing that task. To this
end, in Chapter 23 of this book, we will discuss techniques that you can use to
reduce the mental noise, gain mastery and control of your mental energy, and
begin exploring NPMR and the inner-space of consciousness.


The concepts themselves are deceivingly simple and thus, repetition
quickly becomes tedious. However, their implications for each and every
individual are extremely difficult to grasp fully

Struggling to make your
meditation be how you think it should be is always
counterproductive.
No expectations. No struggle. No demands. The point is
not to force your will on the process, but to let the
process unfold naturally as it captivates your attention.
Remember that what you are trying to do without trying is to not do. Read that
sentence again

Later you can learn how
to direct that consciousness once you have freed it from a
noisy, frantic, ego serving, perpetual tail chase. Do not
try to direct it too soon — that will only delay your
progress — get in touch with, and follow, the source of
your intuition. Do not pursue or chase after specific or
general results. All results must come to you. If you go
after them, it will only delay your progress.
Continue to experiment and to taste the pudding periodically. Natural, easy,
patient, and gentle are the hallmarks of a successful process. Result driven, ego
driven, success driven, frustrated, forced, fearful, and having preconceived
notions and expectations are the hallmarks of a wrong-headed flawed execution
of the meditation process.


At this boundary, being aware in NPMR is somewhat like participating in a
narrowly focused mental activity (somewhat like a totally absorbing interactive
day dream) that has a strong causal (evidential) connection with PMR(physical matter reality) and a
dynamic existence that is independent of you and your conscious or unconscious
mental processes. Your mind must be calm, clear, and steady without unruly
chatter or noise or you cannot differentiate between what your mind creates and
what exists independently of your mind. That is why finding (and learning to
exist and operate within) the calm unperturbed center of your consciousness is
always the first step.
To a clear, low-noise, operative consciousness, collecting data in NPMR will be
like moving through an unusually clear daydream. An exploring consciousness
should initially busy itself doing experiments and looking for evidence of NPMR
activity creating effects in PMR (and vice versa).
One day, after enough hard evidence is gathered through
personal experience, it will become clear that NPMR is
both independent of you and causally connected to PMR.
Realizing that fact will be your first, biggest, and most
amazing discovery!
I still clearly recall my feelings of incredulous amazement when Dennis and I
first began sharing identical simultaneous experiences while exploring NPMR
(see Chapter 10 of this book). After consistently verifying the accuracy of
remote viewing experiments and experiencing firsthand the efficacy of
dramatically affecting the health of a physical body with a focused mind, my
reality was forced to broaden. As the paranormal becomes normal, one has no
rational or logical option other than to seek a bigger picture that contains the
whole of one's carefully evaluated evidential experience.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
from the forum

A good start is to be, through diligent practice, an accomplished meditator. 
That is, be able to find and remain in that state where you have shut out all the ego and background noise 
and exist only as a single point of consciousness (awareness) floating in an empty silent void. 
At that point you are nothing but intent just waiting to be focused. 
The action of focusing is an act of free will expressing purpose and goal. 
Now, while remaining in that state, you can focus that intent on growing your being, exploring NPMR, 
or healing a physical body in need of some assistance. Don't expect anything — expectation (a function of ego)
should not exist in that still quiet place — be grateful for whatever tiny increment you get. 
Eventually, with much practice, you will be able to access that state even while driving home or talking to someone.
----------------------

Tom on Meditation:
Meditation is a technique you use to quiet the constant jabber of your brain-based or PMR-based thoughts and ego which are about 
"me in PMR" -- an operative little picture intellect jabbering away about nothing and everything -- 
like a 13 year old girl with her first cell phone.
One typically starts this journey to explore beyond PMR attachments with meditation. 
With enough practice one learns to let go of local operative thoughts and PMR sensory inputs and experience pure consciousness,
pure awareness with no thoughts and no sensory input from PMR -- this is the void -- perfect sensory deprivation and a perfectly
still mind aware of nothing but its own existence. The void is a good place to just float around and feel totally integrated and
connected with All That Is at a visceral level -- to experience your own consciousness as a point of aware existence within The One.
Because in this state you are aware of your existence but have no direct awareness of PMR, you are no longer body centered -- 
you are out of your body. Some take 20 years to get to this point because their beliefs and expectations put this experience 
outside of their reality. Some get there in a few weeks. At this point you can use your intent to focus or drive your consciousness
to do what you want it to do -- heal someone, remote view, walk around on Mars, explore the available data bases, 
or communicate with some other consciousness in either PMR or NPMR. You can think rationally, make decisions and express
your will coherently - your mind is clear, easily focused, and at your command rather than being submerged within your 
randomly chattering ego. Your intent is what you will. Your intent/will is normally obfuscated beneath a pile of 
self-referential high entropy jabber and ego junk but because you have learned to reduce that to zero -- now it is just 
you "the consciousness" and the void that is The One. You are now in control of, the captain of, your mind.
---------------------




----------------------
----------------------
from gomez circle: open theory and qualia research istitute

I believe that almost all techniques that intentionally ‘hack’ the brain’s annealing process share a common mechanism: 
a build-up of semantically neutral energy. “Semantically neutral energy” refers to neural activity which is not strongly 
associated with any specific cognitive or emotional process. As I note above, usually energy build-up is limited: once a 
perturbation of the system neatly falls into a pattern recognized by the brain’s predictive hierarchy, the neural activity 
propagating this pattern is dissipated. But if a pattern never quite matches anything, or takes advantage of implementation-level 
structure to persist, and especially if it’s getting continually reinforced by some external or internal dynamic it can 
persist long enough to build up. I think meditation is a perfect example of a process which adds semantically-neutral energy 
to the brain: effortful attention on excitatory bottom-up sense-data and attenuation of inhibitory top-down predictive models 
will naturally lead to a build-up of this ‘non-semantic’ energy in the brain.
---
I.e., Meditation is a remarkably clever technique which piggybacks on several of the brain’s core principles of self-organization: 
first, effortful attention on (excitatory) sense-data and inhibiting (inhibitory) predictive storytelling naturally pushes 
the brain into a high-energy state and makes it more malleable; this excess energy disproportionately collects in natural 
brain harmonics, and as the brain ‘cools’ from its high-energy state, these energized harmonics become ‘deeper’, 
leading to more psychological robustness. Less neuroticism and more flow. I think this is where a large portion of the benefits 
of advanced meditation comes from.
Meditation isn’t the only method to induce build-up of semantically-neutral energy; the “Big Three” are:
– Meditation, which seems to work by both increasing excitatory sense-data and decreasing inhibitory top-down predictive models
(energy sinks);
– Psychedelics, which intuitively may function by disabling existing energy sinks (or perhaps overloading them by increasing 
baseline firing rates or increasing the branching factor of neural activity).In the abstract – I think psychedelics are more powerful, 
more dangerous, and more healing than commonly assumed.
(psychedelics are another way to reach these high-energy states, and people have noticed there’s an ‘imprinting’ process where the 
things you think about and feel while high can leave durable imprints on how you feel after the trip
– Music, a sensory input which seems to exist on the knife’s edge between exhibiting highly ordered patterns (some of which will hit 
natural connectome harmonics and so allow accumulation of energy through resonance) on one hand, and on the other hand not being 
too predictable (thus dodging most inhibitory top-down predictive models);
Hybrid approaches also exist: e.g. exercise, dance, sex, tantric practices, EMDR, and breath work are essentially combinations 
of the rhythmic portion of music and the sensory portion of meditation. The fact that psychedelics reliably enhance the potency of each
and every one of these practices is not a coincidence, but due to shared mechanism.
---
Vipassana training consists of both working on mindfulness, careful observation of what enters the mind, and concentration, 
holding attention on some object. These capacities are seen as somehow opposed but also complimentary to each other, and it’s 
important that they develop in tandem, that one doesn’t lag behind. This roughly corresponds with predictive coding’s idea that 
perception consists of a negotiation between ‘bottom-up’ raw sense data, and ‘top-down’ models of reality which provide context 
for the raw data and fill in any missing gaps. Likewise, predictive coding suggests that if one of these processes is much stronger 
than the other, problems occur– e.g. if bottom-up sense-data dominates we’ll experience noise and confusion as we struggle 
to sort things out, and if top-down predictions dominate we’ll experience hallucinations, stories not connected to facts. 
My intuition is that modern life’s focus on planning and abstract thought tends to make us a little ‘top-heavy’ here, so at least 
as beginners, most people would probably benefit more from mindfulness meditation (retraining themselves 
to focus on their raw sense-data) than they would from concentration meditation (being able to maintain and conceptually purify 
their stories/predictions about their world). This may be different than in Buddha’s time.
Finally, to speculate a little about one of the deep mysteries of life, perhaps we can describe love as the result of a strong 
annealing process 
while under the influence of some pattern. I.e., evolution has primed us such that certain intentional objects 
(e.g. romantic partners) can trigger high-energy states where the brain smooths out its discontinuities/dissonances, 
such that given the presence of that pattern our brains are in harmony.
--
Finally, we may be able to usefully describe the Buddhist jhanas through a combination of CSHW and neural annealing. 
Essentially, Buddha noted that as one follows the meditative path and eliminates unwholesome mental states, they will 
experience various trance-like states of deep mental unification he called ‘jhanas’.
---
--
-
 We can also keep our minds open to further alternative scientific models— the more entry points we have to this topic 
the better holistic story we can tell. It’s possible that the above models are not super useful and there are 
others which are much better. But it’s my strong intuition that this type of approach— pulling the best quantitative 
models from neuroscience (and other branches of science) and using them to try to tell the story of 
‘what meditation is doing’ from multiple angles— will be a very generative path forward.

---usefull links---

point consciousness video search: https://videosearch.my-big-toe.com/?search=point%20consciousness
youtube: Tom Campbell  ---  https://www.youtube.com/user/twcjr44
google book: https://books.google.it/books?id=RYHtBPiZVgsC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=true
forum: https://www.my-big-toe.com/forums/index.php



